Let's exit full screen on our index.jsp and open up our src,
main, java, com.pluralsight.conference controller package,
and inside of here our Registrationcontroller.
Now,
we've already made our PostMapping secured by adding the
@Secured annotation for ROLE_USER and showed how that all
came together in the last module,
but what we don't have is the current logged in user,
and there's a lot of reasons why we would want that.
We could use it for auditing, for displaying simple logging.
Lots of reasons why we'd want that inside of our code.
It's actually really easy to add.
And this is a method that is called by Spring.
We don't call this directly.
We call a mapping that goes through the Spring MVC framework and
is intercepted by the URL post to registration,
as you can see in the PostMapping we have here.
Well,
we're going to go through and just add another line on the end of
this method signature for the authentication object.
So,
I'm actually going to take it down to a new line so that
you can see it easier on our screen.
And we'll just say Authentication, and we'll choose the Spring Security object,
and we'll store that in a variable named auth and save that.
And that's all we actually have to do to inject that into this method call.
From here, we can do a simple System.out.println and say auth.getPrincipal.
And that's the name of the current logged in user.
If you want to make that a little bit more user
friendly for the System.out.println,
we can give ourselves some quotes inside of here and say that
the Auth is equal to this and save that.
Now when we do a post to addRegistration,
it'll have that current authenticated user inside of here,
and we can grab the principal.
We could also add more details to our custom
ConferenceUserDetails object that we created,
and those would all be available here when we call the getDetails object on it.
But let's restart our server and see what this one does.
Back in our Conference App, since we restarted our server,
we're not logged in again.
We can click our Login link, put in our username and password,
and we're back logged in.
Let's click Add Registration.
And if we add a registration inside of here,
it will go through and now post back to that server and
grab that current logged in user.
Now we don't have a nice helper method on here that goes ahead and
displays that your registration was saved successfully,
but it was.
Let's go back over to our IDE and look at that
System.out.println that we put in there,
and you can see right at the bottom of our log file
that we have Registration: asdf,
and that was the registration that we put in there.
But right above that, we have our Auth, and we have the username bryan,
our password is protected.
All of the information's stored in that principal object.
So you can dive further into that object.
This is just calling the toString on that principal object.
But you see all the fields that you have available to
you to call on that individual.
We can even see the roles that they have associated with them.
So really valuable for us to be able to do things in a secure
fashion and start filtering data or even pass in for audit columns
in our database or other things like that.
But note that this is useful to us on methods called by Spring.
We can always use the old method of using the static context
to grab the current logged in user that's been around for
Spring Security since day one,
but this is a really nice feature to pass that through your objects,
is you go through all of your tiers on anything that's called by Spring.
Any method called by Spring,
you can auto inject that authentication object into that method by just adding it to the signature line.